all right for homework you will
be looking at the attractive and
repulsive energies between two ions
this is this example we have potassium
and chloride i don't remember
i thought what your homework was but
they will give you
the attractive equation the repulsive
equation
and remember again what we need is just
the net so we're just simply going to
plot
simply going to add these two we're
going to do this in a plot
so i'll show you what it looks like in
excel
um and then i'll post maybe a video
helping you actually work through excel
if you're having trouble
but in excel we can go ahead and make a
column for the attractive
for the repulsive and then add the two
and then plot all of those versus
the radius r and we'll generate this
curve
that we just saw and then from there we
can read off the bond energy
and the equilibrium's atom spacing
okay so again this is going to remind
you of the equation
this is the data that was given and i
have all of that written over here for
my constants
in this case i actually went through and
did the derivative
of the equation and found the equations
for e zero and
r zero so that's what these were for you
don't have to do that
these are calculated
and so what i need to do is just simply
plot this equation so what i'm going to
do is make a column of
r values and the units are in nanometers
so i'll go ahead and we do that and then
i make a column
for the attractive energy piece
and a column for the repulsive energy
piece
and then i'll go ahead and add those two
for the net energy
and then all i need to do is select
these columns and
tell excel to go ahead and scatter plot
it
and i'll get something like this here on
the right
i know when you first go ahead and do
this in excel what you'll probably find
is that
you don't see actually anything except
for maybe a flat line
and then it looks like your curve kind
of does that
so if you double check on the limits of
the axes here you'll probably find that
they're very very
high so that you can't see as well which
is only
on the order of in this case say almost
0.5 i mean
almost negative 5 evs that's because at
very close spacings
the repulsive part is very very large so
you notice the size of these numbers
so what you can do is either skip some
of those when you go ahead and do your
plotting
or easier is just go ahead and double
click on your y-axis
and change the scale to something much
more reasonable and you'll get your
curve